Billing
===========

For correct work of accounting part it is necessary to compile and establish the module ams_cdr_mysql.so from the package ams-modules. 
After installation it is necessary in a file ams.conf in section [global] to establish parameters of connection with mysql database  (hostname, dbname, user, password, port, sock). 
The parameters specified in ams.conf and parameters of connection in a file config.php should specify one database. 
They identical if the Asterisk, the database and a web-server work on one computer. 

To establish parameters in section

[billing]

billing_enable=1
tables_in_memory=1 ; 0- usual tables are used, 1 - tables, which necessary billing, are copied to memory, 
;that allows to accelerate select time about ~30 %. It is necessary to remember, that in this case it is required 
;to reload Asterisk configuration after modification in tariffs or tariff plans that these changes have come into force


Billing works as follows. 
At creation of Tariff plans (the module Tariff Plans) is set unique identifier AccountCode. 
The call having during the moment of end parameter accountcode, conterminous with the identifier of the Tariff plan will be considered, corresponding the given Tariff plan. 
AccountCode the tariff plan can be completely equals accountcode a call, or to be a substring. 
For example, if tariff plan Test Plan with AccountCode = test is created.


extensions.conf
----------------

exten => 100,1,Set(CDR(accountcode)=test) ;This call will correspond to tariff plan Test Plan

exten => 200,1,Set(CDR(accountcode)=test-123) ; and this too

Tariff plans can be in different currencies. Currencies it is possible to add, edit rates in the module of Currency.

At creation of tariff plans it is possible to set rules of translation of prefixes. 
These rules are necessary, when the user dials the number in one format, and in the tariff plan other format of record is used.
For example, in the tariff plan the tariff 7495 - Russia Moscow is set, and the user types in a habitual format 8495....
Then in the tariff plan it is necessary to set a rule of translation - the Original Prefix - 8, Replacing prefix - 7.
If a field replacing prefix to leave empty, the Original prefix will be cut simply off. 
Rules of translation do not influence in any way passage of a call and do not change the dialed digits, they are necessary only for correct search of a direction in the tariff plan.

The parameter Billing Step in the tariff plan influences algorithm of calculation of cost of a call. 
The first field - the seconds that are not calculated, 
the second - minimal billing duration, the third - billing step after excess minimal billing duration. 
For example, per second tariffing since the first second - 0/1/1. 
Billing Step 0/30/6 means, that the call duration is less 30 сек. will be equal to 30 сек., and further duration will be approximated with accuracy 6 сек. aside greater value.


Rates
--------------


In the module Rates it is possible to add, edit, delete tariffs for the chosen tariff plan. 
At addition and editing it is possible to use conveniently the Directory codes, whence it is possible to insert directions into the tariff plan directly. 
At record cdr a call its accessory to the tariff plan is defined and a corresponding direction in the given tariff plan. 
The direction With the maximal length of concurrence of a prefix is serached. 
For example, if in the tariff plan there are records Russia proper - 7 and Russia Moscow - 7495, a call 7495.... 
It will be certain as Russia Moscow. 

Also each tariff has parameters - the minimal length (quantity of digits) and the maximal length. I.e. calls with identical prefixes, but with different length can be certain as different directions.
For example, there are tariffs test1 with a prefix 123 and length 4-4, and the tariff test2 with a prefix 123 and length 5-10. 
Then the call with dialed digits 1235 will be certain as test1, a call with dialed digits 12356 - as test2. 

If it was not possible to define an accessory of a call to any tariff plan, or in the tariff plan it is not found the corresponding tariff, in a field the Direction will be written Unknown and cost - 0.00. 

Reports
---------------


The module Reports allows to receive various reports with a filtration by various parameters. 
If the parameter Base currency is set, total cost will be led to this currency at rates specified in the module of Currency. 
If this parameter is not set, the result will be in several currencies (if calls passed under tariff plans with different currencies). 



